I’ve always been fascinated by the use of things like geometry, randomness, and motion in works of art. So, for my final project, I want to create something that utilizes these elements. Essentially, what I want to create is a digital painting that creates and moves geometric shapes in a pattern that is determined at random. This would ideally mean that no two viewings of this piece would be the same, providing a unique experience to everyone that observed it.

Ideally, the end result of this project would be a page that, when opened, would display a moving pattern in a random way, and continue to change itself at random while the page remains open. It would be something one could leave open and continue to see new arrangements and motions shapes, or refresh the page to get an immediate change.

It is difficult to create mock up sketches or screenshots for this project, as it would be unpredictable in its ideal state. However, for some possible examples, as well as a good reference for a similar type of work, I would like to link to [this page] (http://www.thisiscolossal.com/2014/06/dizzying-geometric-gifs-by-david-whyte/) that I used in my artist inspiration assignment. This contains some examples of work that capture the style of what I hope to end up with, the exception being that mine would be random, instead of a repeating pattern.

There would be a number of problems I would have to handle in order to get this working. I would have to find a way to generate shapes so that they are randomly created, but still interact with each other in such a way that is visually pleasing. To do this, I would likely have to do a lot of work with timers, random number generators, and mathematic formulas that can handle a wide variety of arguments. I would also have to find a way to make sure all of this could stay synced to windows of various sizes, since I want it to be as adaptable as possible. I would have to look at functions to find which is the best one to use to handle this problem and work with the other parts of my program. I also need to find a way to make shapes change in a manner that looks smooth- there may be functions to convert shapes, or I may have to find creative ways to draw them in and bring them into view, such as bringing them into the picture or increasing their visibility slowly. Mostly, this will likely take a lot of trial and error to see what works and looks right.

I’ve never been good with schedules; I have never managed to keep a personal schedule once. Still, if I had to create one for the three or so weeks we have to work on this, it would look like this:

Week 1 – Begin researching problems in detail. Find out ways to handle screen movement, random shape generation and movement, and time-based changes. Keep track of problems to seek answers later, both online and in class if need be.

Week 2 – Create functioning version of program. Ensure the majority of aspects work, and implement any changes that have to be made after the discoveries of the first week. Have project prepared for feedback and testing.

Week 3 – Use user feedback to improve program: find ways to fix problems, make necessary changes, and generally make it look nicer, more fluid, and more impressive. Exact changes will depend upon feedback and discoveries.