Let me just begin by saying that this assignment was very difficult. In fact, it might be the hardest one I’ve had to do yet in this class, especially considering the number of roadblocks I ran into and how busy I have been. Despite that, though, I believe I have created a project that effectively accomplishes all the required parameters listed on the homework page.

First, I had to make a pacman that would travel and face in one of four cardinal directions; north, south, east, and west. To do this, I created four prototype classes, one for each direction. Whenever one of these was called, it would set the respective values used to draw and move pacman to values that would position it properly in the respective direction. It would also set its speed to a random variable.

Next, I had to ensure that pacman stopped moving when it reached and edge. This was fairly simple; I had to check if the edge of the pacman reached the edge of the canvas, and if it did, call a function that would set its movement values to 0. I also made it reset its position to the edge of the canvas where it would theoretically collide, just to prevent it from moving past the edge and getting stuck or lost.

The timer is where things started to get difficult, though. Making the timer required me to make a value that would increment along with the framerate until it reached another value that was set at random between 0 and 240 (the framerate equivalent of four seconds). When it hit this value, it would call a function to change pacman’s direction and reset. It took a while to figure out how to prevent pacman’s direction change from repeating its direction. I had no idea how to go about doing this, and I eventually had to consult the internet, as there was no method I could come up with myself that worked. I ended up using a do while loop to tell the variable to keep changing while the variable equaled itself, so it had to end up a different number. Then, based on this random 0-3 number, I called one of my direction functions.

Finally, though, I had to make the pacman also stop if it collided with another pacman. This was the other part that gave me the most trouble. I created a function that used a number of nested for loops and if loops to check if one pacman got within a certain distance of another pacman it was moving toward, and if it did, to stop it. Unfortunately, the code didn’t work, and I couldn’t figure out why. I had to keep changing the way it worked slightly, hoping I could figure it out. Eventually, I managed to get it to work. I’m still a bit confused about it, though; I understand why the code I have now works, but I still don’t get why the first code I used didn’t. It was probably due to some syntax technicality I was unaware of.

At any rate, I finally managed to get everything working, and may or may not have jumped for joy.
