For this assignment, I created a number of elements that are affected and controlled by different things in order to meet the criteria. First, I made a nested for loop that creates a grid of squares on the page. The color of the squares is set to a random value whenever the page is started. The colors of the squares are reassigned to a new random color every time the user clicks the mouse through the mousePressed function. The colors of the circle and the button are also affected by this change. This is a conditional control statement that is affected by the clicking of the mouse.

Getting into more of the main parts of my page, I created a circle that moves around the screen, bouncing at an angle whenever it hits a wall. This happens because the continuously updating x and y values that add to the current x an y position of the circle are set to negative versions of themselves whenever the cicle center reaches a certain distance from the respective edge of the canvas. The initial values of the variables that move the circle (named circleXDir and circleYDir respectively) are selected at startup randomly from a group of values I defined globally. These include values from -5 to 5, but not 0, to ensure the circle is always moving. Depending on the values, the circle will have a different speed and direction of motion, as well as a different starting point. These move the circle by adding themselves to its current position every frame, resulting in a continuously updated variable.

Finally, in the middle of the canvas, there is a square that acts as a button. Whenever this button is clicked with the mouse, the circleXDir and circleYDir variables will be assigned new values from the dirChoices variable. This means that the circle will change to a new random speed and direction every time this button is pressed. This is effectively a GUI element; it is a specific point on screen that can be intereacted with via the mouse, and which will perform a function when the mouse is pressed within its boundaries.
